content/tutorial/index.md, before:

---
title: "Tutorial"
---
We would like to explain some tutorial stuff and basic knowldge about our framework. We recommand, that you have got expirence about the [belief–desire–intention model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belief%E2%80%93desire%E2%80%93intention_software_model) of a multi-agent system, some programming concepts in a logical programming (similar to [Prolog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prolog)) language and [Java](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/).

## Basic Knowledge

1. [Logical Programming](basic-logicalprogramming) for understanding the difference to imperative programming. Explanation of the basic concepts for using this paradigm to describe the agent behaviour
2. [Finite-State-Machine](basic-finitestatemachine) for understanding the runtime model of the agent behaviour
3. [Finite-State-Machine & Logical Programming to an Agent](basic-fsm-logical-to-agent) to understand how we combine the parts into our agent definition
4. [Actions](basic-actions) shows all build-in action

## Tutorials

1. [AgentSpeak scenario in 15 minutes](tutorial-agentspeak-in-fifteen-minutes) a minimal example to build an agent scenario in 15 minutes from scratch with the current developer source codes
2. [Efficient Beliefbase](tutorial-efficient-beliefbase) is a tutorial for creating efficient beliefbase structures
3. [Communication](tutorial-communication) is a tutorial to build communication, because LightJason does not support a build-in communication.

Commit message:

mofiy tutorial (add environment tutorial), add robots.txt, fix typos

content/tutorial/index.md, after:

---
title: "Tutorial"
---
We would like to explain some tutorial stuff and basic knowldge about our framework. We recommand, that you have got expirence about the [belief–desire–intention model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belief%E2%80%93desire%E2%80%93intention_software_model) of a multi-agent system, some programming concepts in a logical programming (similar to [Prolog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prolog)) language and [Java](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/).

## Basic Knowledge

1. [Logical Programming](basic-logicalprogramming) for understanding the difference to imperative programming. Explanation of the basic concepts for using this paradigm to describe the agent behaviour
2. [Finite-State-Machine](basic-finitestatemachine) for understanding the runtime model of the agent behaviour
3. [Finite-State-Machine & Logical Programming to an Agent](basic-fsm-logical-to-agent) to understand how we combine the parts into our agent definition
4. [Actions](basic-actions) shows all build-in action

## Tutorials

1. [AgentSpeak scenario in 15 minutes](tutorial-agentspeak-in-fifteen-minutes) a minimal example to build an agent scenario in 15 minutes from scratch with the current developer source codes
2. [Efficient Beliefbase](tutorial-efficient-beliefbase) is a tutorial for creating efficient beliefbase structures
3. [Environment](tutorial-environment) is a tutorial to create an environment, which is not nessessary on LightJason 
4. [Communication](tutorial-communication) is a tutorial to build communication, because LightJason does not support a build-in communication.
