content/about.md, before:

---
title: "About"
previous:
    url: "/tutorials/efficient-beliefbase"
    text: "Efficient Beliefbase" 
next :
    url: "/contact"
    text: "contact"
---

We started this project as part of our Ph.D. work, because our research deals with [multi-agent systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-agent_system).
Our research projects consider _traffic_ and _crowd simulation_, and we try to simulate more _more complex human-like behaviour_.

> [Malte](/contact)'s research depends on _complex overtaking
> manoeuvre_ and _norm usage_  on a high
> abstraction level. The research contains a more
> application-based structure, but it is a great and
> helpful work, in which way a multi-agent system can
> be used in complex simulation scenarios.<br>
> As an alumni of the DFG project [SocialCars](https://socialcars.github.io), his current academic research is focused on the field of _(de-&#x2060;)centralized cooperative traffic management_ and [documented on the project's GitHub-site](https://socialcars.github.io/b-decentralized-cooperative/#b2-1-malte-aschermann-https-github-com-masc-a-mechanism-for-automatic-coordination-of-cooperative-driving-manoeuvres-fairness-vs-efficiency). 

<p/>

> [Sophie](/contact)'s research depends on [social-choice theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_choice_theory)
> which is the first usage of LightJason implementation.
> The generic aspect of this work is the aggregation of individual preferences into a collective decision.<br>
> As a member of the DFG project [SocialCars](https://socialcars.github.io), her current academic research is (like Malte's) also embedded in the field of _(de-&#x2060;)centralized cooperative traffic management_ and [documented on the project's GitHub-site](https://socialcars.github.io/b-decentralized-cooperative/#b2-2-sophie-dennisen-https-github-com-sdennisen-collective-decision-making-mechanisms-in-urban-traffic).

<p/>

> [Philipp](/contact)'s focus of research is the _high scalability_ of such
> complex simulation systems with data mining / big
> data and software developing aspects.
> His thesis mainly contains algorithms, data structure, software developing and formal structure.
> The applied software building process is inspired by [Scrum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(software_development)) and
> [Continuous Integration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration) to get a long-live, robust
> software architecture.


Based on these perspectives, we can motivate our work.
Our work is inspired by [Jason](http://jason.sourceforge.net/), a multi-agent framework developed by Jomi F. Hübner and Rafael H. Bordini, wich we didn't use due to conflicts with our requirements. Instead we based our work on some of their theoretical concepts and ideas.

We tried a lot of different types of frameworks like [TerraME](http://www.terrame.org/), [FLAME](http://www.flame.ac.uk/), [GOAL](http://ii.tudelft.nl/trac/goal) or [MASON](http://cs.gmu.edu/~eclab/projects/mason/) to create an usable system for our simulation, but without success, so that we build up our framework from scratch.

From another point of view, we had compared the main _popular programming language indices_ [Tiobe](http://www.tiobe.com/tiobe-index/), [RedMonk](http://redmonk.com/sogrady/2016/02/19/language-rankings-1-16/) and [PopularitY](http://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html) in 2015 / 2016 and we found out, that agent-programming languages are not listed on any index, only _logical programming (Prolog)_ is found on Tiobe.
Our goal for this system is to create a practically usable and well documented framework which can also be used by non-software-developers and included in already existing projects. We try to explain the ideas, concepts and technical background in a clean and understandable way to get a better approval of agent-programming and modelling.

> All content of the website is defined under the 
[Creative Commons License (CC BY-SA 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)
> <br/><br/>
> ![cc](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/cc.svg#floatcentering)
> ![by](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/by.svg#floatcentering)
> ![sa](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/sa.svg#floatcentering)

Commit message:

clarify license of code and other content

content/about.md, after:

---
title: "About"
previous:
    url: "/tutorials/efficient-beliefbase"
    text: "Efficient Beliefbase" 
next :
    url: "/contact"
    text: "contact"
---

We started this project as part of our Ph.D. work, because our research deals with [multi-agent systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-agent_system).
Our research projects consider _traffic_ and _crowd simulation_, and we try to simulate more _more complex human-like behaviour_.

> [Malte](/contact)'s research depends on _complex overtaking
> manoeuvre_ and _norm usage_  on a high
> abstraction level. The research contains a more
> application-based structure, but it is a great and
> helpful work, in which way a multi-agent system can
> be used in complex simulation scenarios.<br>
> As an alumni of the DFG project [SocialCars](https://socialcars.github.io), his current academic research is focused on the field of _(de-&#x2060;)centralized cooperative traffic management_ and [documented on the project's GitHub-site](https://socialcars.github.io/b-decentralized-cooperative/#b2-1-malte-aschermann-https-github-com-masc-a-mechanism-for-automatic-coordination-of-cooperative-driving-manoeuvres-fairness-vs-efficiency). 

<p/>

> [Sophie](/contact)'s research depends on [social-choice theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_choice_theory)
> which is the first usage of LightJason implementation.
> The generic aspect of this work is the aggregation of individual preferences into a collective decision.<br>
> As a member of the DFG project [SocialCars](https://socialcars.github.io), her current academic research is (like Malte's) also embedded in the field of _(de-&#x2060;)centralized cooperative traffic management_ and [documented on the project's GitHub-site](https://socialcars.github.io/b-decentralized-cooperative/#b2-2-sophie-dennisen-https-github-com-sdennisen-collective-decision-making-mechanisms-in-urban-traffic).

<p/>

> [Philipp](/contact)'s focus of research is the _high scalability_ of such
> complex simulation systems with data mining / big
> data and software developing aspects.
> His thesis mainly contains algorithms, data structure, software developing and formal structure.
> The applied software building process is inspired by [Scrum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(software_development)) and
> [Continuous Integration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration) to get a long-live, robust
> software architecture.


Based on these perspectives, we can motivate our work.
Our work is inspired by [Jason](http://jason.sourceforge.net/), a multi-agent framework developed by Jomi F. Hübner and Rafael H. Bordini, wich we didn't use due to conflicts with our requirements. Instead we based our work on some of their theoretical concepts and ideas.

We tried a lot of different types of frameworks like [TerraME](http://www.terrame.org/), [FLAME](http://www.flame.ac.uk/), [GOAL](http://ii.tudelft.nl/trac/goal) or [MASON](http://cs.gmu.edu/~eclab/projects/mason/) to create an usable system for our simulation, but without success, so that we build up our framework from scratch.

From another point of view, we had compared the main _popular programming language indices_ [Tiobe](http://www.tiobe.com/tiobe-index/), [RedMonk](http://redmonk.com/sogrady/2016/02/19/language-rankings-1-16/) and [PopularitY](http://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html) in 2015 / 2016 and we found out, that agent-programming languages are not listed on any index, only _logical programming (Prolog)_ is found on Tiobe.
Our goal for this system is to create a practically usable and well documented framework which can also be used by non-software-developers and included in already existing projects. We try to explain the ideas, concepts and technical background in a clean and understandable way to get a better approval of agent-programming and modelling.

> Except where otherwise noted,

> * source code displayed on this site is licensed under a [GNU Lesser General Public License v3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html),
> * all other content on this site is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC BY-SA 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
>   <br/><br/>
>   ![cc](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/cc.svg#floatcentering)
>   ![by](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/by.svg#floatcentering)
>   ![sa](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/sa.svg#floatcentering)
