content/knowledgebase/index.md, before:

---
title: "Knowledge Base"
gitter: "knowledge base"
previous :
    url: "/framework"
    text: "Framework"
next :
    url: "/knowledgebase/logicalprogramming/"
    text: "Theoretical Introduction: Logic Programming"
---

In this Section we provide basic and advanced knowledge helpful for understanding the theoretical concepts of our framework.

> **Note:** For a more *hands-on* experience $\to$ see [practical tutorials](/tutorials).

## Theoretical Introduction
  1. [Logic Programming](logicalprogramming) for understanding the difference to imperative programming. Explanation of the basic concepts for using this paradigm to describe the agent behaviour
  2. [Finite-State Machine](finitestatemachine) for understanding the runtime model of the agent behaviour
  3. [Finite-State Machine and Logic Programming of an agent](agent) to understand how we combine the parts into our agent definition
  4. [Difference to Jason](differencetojason) shows the main differences between [Jason](http://jason.sourceforge.net) and our framework


<br>

## Basic Knowledge
  1. [Atoms](atoms)
  2. [Terms](terms)
  3. [Literals](literals)
  4. [Variables](variables)
  5. [Plans and Logic Rules](plansandrules)
  6. [Goals](goals)
  7. [Beliefs and Facts](beliefsandfacts)
  8. [Actions](actions)
  9. [Built-in Actions](builtinactions) provides a reference to all built-in actions available to LightJason agent programmers
  10. [Unification](unification)

<br>

## Advanced Knowledge
  1. [Plan Triggering Techniques](triggering) provides insights into different ways to trigger plans in AgentSpeak(L++)
  2. [Plan Annotations](annotations) shows how to modify the execution behaviour of plans
  3. [Failing is Intentional](failing) explains techniques to mitigate failing plans and actions, as failing is part of ~~humans~~ agents interacting with each other in a shared environment.

Commit message:

revised all basic kb articles for consistency and clarity; added examples

content/knowledgebase/index.md, after:

---
title: "Knowledge Base"
gitter: "knowledge base"
previous :
    url: "/framework"
    text: "Framework"
next :
    url: "/knowledgebase/logicalprogramming/"
    text: "Theoretical Introduction: Logic Programming"
---

In this Section we provide basic and advanced knowledge helpful for understanding the theoretical concepts of our framework.

> **Note:** For a more *hands-on* experience $\to$ see [practical tutorials](/tutorials).

## Theoretical Introduction
  1. [Logic Programming](logicalprogramming) for understanding the difference to imperative programming. Explanation of the basic concepts for using this paradigm to describe the agent behaviour
  2. [Finite-State Machine](finitestatemachine) for understanding the runtime model of the agent behaviour
  3. [Finite-State Machine and Logic Programming of an agent](agent) to understand how we combine the parts into our agent definition
  4. [Difference to Jason](differencetojason) shows the main differences between [Jason](http://jason.sourceforge.net) and our framework


<br>

## Basic Knowledge
  1. [Atoms](atoms) the basic building blocks
  2. [Terms](terms) fit all value- and data-types
  3. [Literals](literals) comprise complex information
  4. [Variables](variables) placeholder to store dynamic information at runtime
  5. [Plans and Logic Rules](plansandrules) to describe complex behaviour
  6. [Goals](goals) mark plans to be executed
  7. [Beliefs and Facts](beliefsandfacts) to store information the agent perceived or deduced from the environment
  8. [Actions](actions) to interact with other agents or the environment
  9. [Built-in Actions](builtinactions) provides a reference to all built-in actions available to LightJason agent programmers
  10. [Unification](unification) to get current values from literals

<br>

## Advanced Knowledge
  1. [Plan Triggering Techniques](triggering) provides insights into different ways to trigger plans in AgentSpeak(L++)
  2. [Plan Annotations](annotations) shows how to modify the execution behaviour of plans
  3. [Failing is Intentional](failing) explains techniques to mitigate failing plans and actions, as failing is part of ~~humans~~ agents interacting with each other in a shared environment.
