content/framework/index.md, before:

---
title: "Framework"
previous :
    url: "/publications"
    text: "publications"
next :
    url: "/benchmark"
    text: "benchmark"
---

The multi-agent framework is split up into different parts. Each component is provided with separate documentation. In this section, we give an overview of all framework elements.<!--more--> The whole framework is published at [Maven Central](http://mvnrepository.com).

The source codes are written in Java (latest release version) with a defined syntax structure; all code documentation is created with [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org). We are also using unit testing and the [Git-Flow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) developing model.


|  __Component__  | __Status__ | __Development__ | __Description__ |
|:---------------:|:----------:|-----------------|-----------------|
| [AgentSpeak(L++)](agentspeak) | [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/LightJason/AgentSpeak.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/LightJason/AgentSpeak) <br/> [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/LightJason/AgentSpeak.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/LightJason/AgentSpeak?branch=master) <br/> [![Docker](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/lightjason/agentspeak.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/lightjason/agentspeak/) | The component is before the first release, we are in the _testing phase_ and increase test-cases to find any problems, all necessary elements exist and are mainly tested | This component defines the main agent structure. It defines the whole syntax and the base agent structure. It also supports an agent generator and configuration so that you can create a set of agents by an ASL-file. Based on the interface structure, you can redefine all elements if you like. |
| [REST](https://github.com/LightJason/REST) | [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/LightJason/REST.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/LightJason/REST) <br/> [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/LightJason/REST.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/LightJason/REST?branch=master) <br/> [![Docker](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/lightjason/rest.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/lightjason/rest/) | The component is _currently under development_, the main functionality is implemented, but the system is not tested completely and some features can be missing  | The [REST-API (ReSTful)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) is a system to define communication over [HTTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol) for distributed systems. We are supporting such a REST-API to control a set of agents and agent generators. So the whole multi-agent simulation can be controlled via a web interface based on a servlet container on a Java web server e.g. [GlassFish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GlassFish), [Jetty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jetty_(web_server)) or [Tomcat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Tomcat) |

Commit message:

extend component overwiew of framework

content/framework/index.md, after:

---
title: "Framework"
previous :
    url: "/publications"
    text: "publications"
next :
    url: "/benchmark"
    text: "benchmark"
---

The multi-agent framework is split up into different parts. Each component is provided with separate documentation. In this section, we give an overview of all framework elements.<!--more--> The whole framework is published at [Maven Central](http://mvnrepository.com).

The source codes are written in Java (latest release version) with a defined syntax structure; all code documentation is created with [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org). We are also using unit testing and the [Git-Flow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) developing model.


|  __Component__  | __Status__ | __Development__ | __Description__ |
|:---------------:|:----------:|-----------------|-----------------|
| [AgentSpeak(L++)](agentspeak) | [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/LightJason/AgentSpeak.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/LightJason/AgentSpeak) <br/> [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/LightJason/AgentSpeak.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/LightJason/AgentSpeak?branch=master) <br/> [![Docker](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/lightjason/agentspeak.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/lightjason/agentspeak/) | The component has been deployed to [maven central](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Ca%3A%22agentspeak%22%20g%3A%22org.lightjason%22) and in the _testing phase_ to increase the amount of test-cases and finding/fixing  bugs. All necessary elements exist and the core components are covered by tests. | This component defines the main agent structure. It contains the whole syntax and the base agent structure. It also supports agent generators and configuration to create sets of agents by ASL-files. Due to the interface structure, all elements can be redefined. |
| [REST](https://github.com/LightJason/REST) | [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/LightJason/REST.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/LightJason/REST) <br/> [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/LightJason/REST.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/LightJason/REST?branch=master) <br/> [![Docker](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/lightjason/rest.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/lightjason/rest/) | The component is currently _under development_. The main functionality is implemented, but the system is not tested completely and some features are missing. | The [REST-API (ReSTful)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) is a system to define communication over [HTTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol) for distributed systems. We are supporting such a REST-API to control sets of agents and agent generators. So the whole multi-agent simulation can be controlled via web interfaces based on a servlet container on a Java web server e.g. [GlassFish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GlassFish), [Jetty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jetty_(web_server)) or [Tomcat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Tomcat) |
| [Scratchpad](https://github.com/LightJason/Scratchpad) | [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/LightJason/Scratchpad.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/LightJason/Scratchpad) | _Under development_ | Allows to create a cloud-based multi-agent system with [Spring-Boot](https://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/), [Netflix Hysterix](https://github.com/Netflix/Hystrix) and [React](https://reactjs.org/). This component has been used to realise the [Social Cars](https://socialcars.org) [multi-agent workshop](https://lightjason.github.io/news/2017-09-workshop/) |
| [Examples](https://github.com/LightJason/Examples) | [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/LightJason/Examples.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/LightJason/Examples) | _Under development_ | Repository with the base structure of each LightJason AgentSpeak(L++) examples. The examples are used in the [tutorial section](http://lightjason.org/tutorials) of the webpage. |
| [Benchmark](https://github.com/LightJason/Benchmark) | [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/LightJason/Benchmark.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/LightJason/Benchmark) | _Under development_ | This repository contains a _benchmarking suite_ for the LightJason multi-agent framework. We try to keep the structure of a [Java Microbenchmark Harness](http://openjdk.java.net/projects/code-tools/jmh/) and adapted for the structure of a multi-agent system. |
